>> Steve Kinney: We've
got our create store,
we do need to pull in our middleware.
This one's gonna be
a little bit different.
Which is like before,
we just grabbed the thunk middleware,
and we just pulled it in.
This one, we're going to need to
basically create an instance and
start it listening because it
kind of sits aside everything.
So we'll get to that in a second.
But the apply middleware will create
effectively an epic listener, if you will.
And then we'll go through and
we'll kind of pull it in.
So instead of just being the thunk,
we actually need to bring in import,
>> Steve Kinney: This create, I love this
name, create epic middleware,
right, from Redux observable.
Seems really cool, right?
And so on top of your reducers,
you're also gonna have this idea of a,
you had a root reducer.
We're also gonna have this
idea of a root epic, right?
And so the reducers will be listening and
the epics will also be listening, in order
to go ahead and create more of them.
I'm gonna just comment this out for
a second,
cuz we're gonna go implement this epic,
cuz we need to have that route epic.
Otherwise this doesn't really do a lot,
so we'll go ahead and we'll write that.
Let's go ahead and
set up some of our actions
>> Steve Kinney: So
we're gonna import search from the,
>> Steve Kinney: ./api,
which we'll need to deal with a second.
>> Steve Kinney: And,
>> Steve Kinney: What we're gonna do is
we're gonna have the ability
to fetch our characters.
So we have an event that gets fired
when the user wants to fetch some
characters, right.
And this will happen on a keystroke
in that input field, right.
So every time they make a keystroke,
we're gonna go ahead, we're gonna fire it.
But then the epic is gonna fire a new
action saying, I got the thing, right.
And so Redux, completely unaware
of any side effects happening.
This epic is kind of sitting over on
the sidelines and doing it for us.
So we'll make some of these export consts,
fetch characters.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and we'll do
an export const, fetch characters.
And you can call it fetch
characters fulfilled, right?
One, were we asked to do it?
Now this is great because we don't have to
dispatch multiple actions for, all right,
they're gonna load it.
We know that if fetch characters has fired
and fetch characters fulfilled has not,
right, then we know that we're loading,
right.
And we actually have kind of
a middleware that looks for
anything with fetch in it,
and will fire off,
will set us up actions for
loading and error states, right.
But that's kind of a little bit
bespoke and out of the ordinary.
So we'll do this export const.
So when we did it with thunk
we had we did a we had
a weird action creator
that returned a function.
We're not doing that anymore, everything
is going to be just regular old,
>> Steve Kinney: Regular old actions as
we've seen and loved before, right?
Which is we'll just return,
something of the type, fetch characters,
and payload will be whatever search
term we were looking for, right,
whatever is currently in that input field.
All right, neat, and
then fetch characters fulfill is again,
just a normal action creator,
there's nothing special about it.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll get some payload
whatever we hear back from the API,
I could call it API result,
I can call it whatever I want.
>> Steve Kinney: Type :
FETCH_CHARACTERS_FULFILLED and
whatever that payload is,
just pass it through.
I'm just mostly being lazy.
I'm sorry.
What is the famous Larry Wall thing?
Programming is laziness, hubris,
and something along those lines and
impatience.
Are they hallmarks of a great programmer?
Cool, all right, so let's write the epic.
Were gonna have to get to that
API helper in a second but
we'll deal with this momentarily.
Let's make a, I don't know,
let's call it fetch-character-epic.js.
So again, the squirreliest parts
of this are going to be RXJS.
And we're gonna have to pull in a bunch
of different helpers in this case.
So we'll have this import Ajax,
which is from RXJS,
because everything's got to be hooked
in and knowing about observables.
So RXJS/ajax.
>> Steve Kinney: This next one,
this of type, is a redux observable one,
because redux observable is again, in
the same way we had some helpers in react
redux that knew about find action creators
and connect to stuff along those lines.
These are the things
that help us out here.
We'll bring it in from redux-observable.
And then,
the things that we need to do, right?
So map and merge map,
we'll talk about those in a second.
From rxjs/operators.
And then, we're gonna pull in both
the action that's gonna kick things off,
which is fetch characters and
the action creator that is going to
happen when we're all done here.
Right, so
we will import the fetch characters type,
because we have that of
type helper online, too.
So we're gonna look at all the actions to
come through, let's see if I get some.
Yeah, there we go.
And we'll have this,
>> Steve Kinney: Those two, all right.
So we're gonna have the ability fire off
AJAX, the ability to look at the type of
an action, some mapping to
transform the action, right.
So anytime a fetch characters comes
through, we do some Ajax and we take that
action and transform it into the hey,
we've got all the characters action.
And then the things that we
need to actually send that
to regular old Redux, cool.
And we'll make this fetch characters epic.
>> Steve Kinney: And before when I showed
you the example, this takes two arguments,
it takes the action we're looking at and
it will actually take the current
state of the entire store.
So if you need other things, if you need
to know other things that are happening
in the store in order to figure out
what to do, you have access to it.
We don't need it in this case, but
it is available to you if you do.
>> Steve Kinney: And then we'll return.
For every action that comes through,
we used pipe and redux composed before.
We're gonna run it through
a series of functions, right.
And so first of all,
we're gonna do this of Type.
So figure out, take that action and pump
it into this first function that is gonna
figure out,
are you of the type FETCH_CHARACTERS?
That will either return true or false.
It is either action of the type
FETCH_CHARACTERS or it's not.
And then we're gonna do this merge map
because we're gonna need to do is a few
other things in here.
A merge map is very similar to flat map,
which is, it's a radar prototype map,
but it will also take nested things and
bring them all up to the top level.
Cool.
So we'll just kind of take our Ajax and
it has a method called get JSON.
And now you could just pull that off
directly, if you wanted to, that's fine.
Cool, and we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: I
think search is just
gonna be our endpoint.
So I'll actually just pull that in,
because I need to fire up Glitch anyway,
characters.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
I'm gonna wake that up.
And you can see, it's got a few different
endpoints, I can get all the characters,
I get an individual and
this is from the Star Wars API, open API.
I just kind of modified a little bit so
I can actually go ahead and do a query.
Cool.
So we'll actually say,
>> Steve Kinney: Endpoint API, just for
the letter L, we'll say slash search.
So take that endpoint.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll add whatever the search term is.
I'm just gonna put have
a trailing slash there.
And so remember,
when we dispatch that action,
we had the search term in the payload?
So we'll take a look at the action.
We'll say action.payload.searchterm.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.